[OSDOCS#17933]Add procedure for switching update channel. (#105475)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-upgrading-channels.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="rosa-hcp-upgrading-channels_{context}"]
= Channels in {product-title} clusters

[role="_abstract"]

> You can view the options available for upgrading your cluster by using {product-title} channels. By using channels, you can update with the available patches/z-stream updates in your existing channel, then you can choose to view the update path to a newer Y-stream version by selecting the appropriate channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the {product-title} channels to view available cluster upgrade options and apply patches or z-stream updates in your existing channel. You can also view the update path to a newer Y-stream version.
```
Hoped to reduce the number of "by using/selecting channels" from 3 to 1 but it all is subjective and totally up to you...

Author: Good suggestions to minimalize it/reduce fluff. I went with it all for the most part: 
You can use {product-title} channels to view available cluster update options and apply patches or z-stream updates in your existing channel. You can also view the update path to newer y-stream versions if available.

> == Channel groups and Channels

Reviewer: This PR has a procedure that ends with a note that Channel groups are being deprecated. Perhaps mentioning deprecation will make sense somewhere in this section too?

Author: Have moved the channel groups deprecation note to the Channels and channel groups concept topic.

> Channel groups in {product-title} are similar to Channels, but there is no specific version with channel groups. When you select a channel group, you can avail of certain updates to your {product-title} cluster. These channel groups typically include:

Reviewer: Not sure why Channel groups and Channels are sometimes capitalized, but mostly they are not. Can it be made consistent? A quick search in the OCP docs repo doesn't show that these terms are capitalized in the middle of a sentence.

Author: Now updated, no capitalized channels in middle of sentence :+1:

> Channel groups in {product-title} are similar to Channels, but there is no specific version with channel groups. When you select a channel group, you can avail of certain updates to your {product-title} cluster. These channel groups typically include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Channel groups in {product-title} are similar to Channels, but there is no specific version with channel groups. When you select a channel group, you can make/perform/apply? certain updates to your {product-title} cluster. These channel groups typically include the following channels or maybe channel options/variants?:
```
Otherwise it can be not quite clear to a less experienced user what are fast and stable... Mode, configuration, system setting, something else?

Author: I see what you mean. I adjusted it to make it more clear, that channel groups only allow z-stream updates on your current minor version: 
When you select a channel group, your {product-title} cluster receives z-stream updates for your current channel group.

* Fast: cluster receives the latest updates as soon as they are available.
* Stable: cluster receives updates after they have been thoroughly tested.

> * Eus: Extended Update Support channel, allowing for extended support for even-numbered versions, for example, 4.16, 4.18, 4.20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EUS: Extended Update Support channel, allowing for extended support for even-numbered versions, for example, 4.16, 4.18, or 4.20.
```
Or all 3 channel names can probably be formatted as `fast`, `stable` and `eus`. Or `fast-*` etc ? 
OCP docs also have `eus-4.y` but we can't be sure we won't need to change this when OCP 5 is out.

Author: I went with `fast`, `stable` and `eus`.

> Moving from Channel groups to Channels enables you to have more control over your cluster upgrades. Instead of receiving patch/z-stream updates only for a particular channel group, by using Channels you can view the available updates associated with a minor release version, and determine if there is a path available to that minor/Y+1/Y+2 version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By moving from Channel groups to Channels, you can have more control over your cluster upgrades. Instead of receiving patch/z-stream updates only for a particular channel group, by using Channels you can view the available updates associated with a minor release version, and determine if there is a path available to that minor/Y+1/Y+2 version.
```

Author: Done.

> The process for upgrading your cluster is based on the updates that are available for your current version, and what level of release you are interested in, such as z-stream or y-stream updates.

Reviewer: Here and below: Z-stream and Y-stream?
Could be helpful to use these consistently. Looks like Y and Z are mostly capitalized, but maybe z- and y- are sometimes required, and there's a pattern I don't see.

Author: Good point, have changed any references to Y+1, Y+2, to y+1, y+2, y-stream etc., will continue to do that.

* Patch (z-stream) updates: You do not need to change the channel when performing a patch update within your current minor version.
* Minor version (y-stream) updates: To upgrade to a new minor release, you must change the channel to the next release channel (for example, switching from `stable-4.20` to `stable-4.21`).

> * Switching channels: You can change your cluster's channel either through the Administration → Cluster Settings page in the web console or by using the CLI command `rosa edit cluster -c <cluster_name_or_id> --channel <channel_name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Switching channels: You can change your cluster's channel either through the *Administration* > *Cluster Settings* page in the web console or by using the `rosa edit cluster` command.
```
Since the doc provides an overview and not exact instructions, we could just mention the command name and skip options. See the [OCP docs counterpart for this content](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/updating_clusters/understanding-openshift-updates-1#understanding-openshift-updates) or the screenshot: 

<img width="612" height="179" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/332ca26f-de9f-4927-84b4-8249b548dc02" />

Author: Done :+1:

> * Switching channels: You can change your cluster's channel either through the Administration → Cluster Settings page in the web console or by using the CLI command `rosa edit cluster -c <cluster_name_or_id> --channel <channel_name>`.

Reviewer: This is item 3 in a list that is supposed to list types of updates (z-stream or y-stream). This item is action/procedure-related and doesn't match the purpose of this list.

This info can be attached to the previous item "Minor version (y-stream) updates" because it describes how to achieve such updates.

Author: This is done now, as part of the restructure of the concepts docs :+1:

When you have set the channel and an update is initiated, the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) retrieves the target release image and begins applying the changes to the cluster.

== Path to Y+1 and Y+2 updates

> You can upgrade to the available patches/z-stream updates in your existing channel, and then you can choose to view the upgrade path to a newer Y-stream version by selecting the appropriate channel. For example, if you have your cluster at version 4.19.12, you can stay within your current `stable-4.19` channel, and decide to upgrade your cluster when there are updates available, such as 4.19.13, 4.19.14, 4.19.17, 4.19.20 until you have the latest updates for that minor version.

Reviewer: The paragraph doesn't match the title "Path to Y+1 and Y+2 updates". The 2nd paragraph does.

And both paragraphs are examples to the content above (a list that describes what are y- and z-stream updates). Perhaps these 2 paragraphs with examples could be moved to that list above?

A Gdoc with an example of how this content can be rearranged: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12XORQqov_0PMHNzR5f4o4jCOgGptBvLHOJMkJafIoh4

Author: Thanks so much Olga, that's great info and comments - I'm going to use your suggested restructure from the google doc, I knew I had some overlapping information between both sections, but your changes sort it out perfectly!

> You can upgrade to the available patches/z-stream updates in your existing channel, and then you can choose to view the upgrade path to a newer Y-stream version by selecting the appropriate channel. For example, if you have your cluster at version 4.19.12, you can stay within your current `stable-4.19` channel, and decide to upgrade your cluster when there are updates available, such as 4.19.13, 4.19.14, 4.19.17, 4.19.20 until you have the latest updates for that version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can upgrade to the available patches/z-stream updates in your existing channel, and then you can choose to view the upgrade path to a newer Y-stream version by selecting the appropriate channel. For example, if you have your cluster at version 4.19.12, you can stay within your current `stable-4.19` channel, and decide to upgrade your cluster when there are updates available, such as 4.19.13, 4.19.14, 4.19.17, 4.19.20 until you have the latest updates for that minor version.
```

Author: Done :+1:
